---
title: "An objective-adaptive refinement criterion based on modified ridge extraction method for finite-time Lyapunov exponent (FTLE) calculation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-10-08
excerpt: 'In the calculation of inite-time Lyapunov exponent (FTLE), using a physics-based refine criterion is able enhance computation efficiency faster than a universal refine criterion based on error or gradient calculation. '
date: 2019-10-08
venue: 'Journal of Visualization'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1007/s12650-019-00605-1'
citation: 'Hang, H., Yu, B., Xiang, Y., Zhang, B., and Liu, H. (2020). An objective-adaptive refinement criterion based on modified ridge extraction method for finite-time Lyapunov exponent (FTLE) calculation. Journal of Visualization, 23(1), 81-95.'
---
Visualizing finite-time Lyapunov exponent (FTLE) efficiently and accurately has long been a research objective in identifying the coherent structures of turbulence or vortex flows. In this field, adaptive mesh refinement shows its effectiveness. The proposed objective-adaptive refinement (OAR) criterion can
refine adaptive particles in the vicinity of FTLE ridges by a modified gradient climbing method. While errorbased refinement methods suffer from ineffective refinement when the initial velocity field contains error, and refinement methods based on FTLE magnitude have issues with undulate ridges, our objective OAR criterion always steers the refinement toward the vicinity of FTLE ridges. Testing cases include Bickley jet, mild FTLE ridge and experimental single vortex, three-dimensional ABC flow. The results demonstrate that the proposed OAR criterion can give the right refinement region, and thus enhance computation efficiency, by means of accurate extraction of FTLE ridges.

[Download paper here](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12650-019-00605-1)

Recommended citation: Hang, H., Yu, B., Xiang, Y., Zhang, B., and Liu, H. (2020). An objective-adaptive refinement criterion based on modified ridge extraction method for finite-time Lyapunov exponent (FTLE) calculation. Journal of Visualization, 23(1), 81-95.
